oh boy you're out doing some holiday
shopping when you see your battery is
almost empty wait it was at 100% this
morning and you barely touched the thing
all day what could you have done to wear
it down so quickly could it be that cold
winter weather might be any of these
common battery drainers one live
wallpaper and other visual effects yeah
they look cool but they're working
against you if you want your battery to
last longer choose a simple background
image preferably plain black also get
rid of all the widgets on your
homescreen if they update automatically
to power hogging apps checking the
battery usage regularly will help you
find out which apps take up too much
power do yourself a favor and think real
hard if you need them if not uninstall
them without regrets and choose simpler
alternatives if you can three you let
apps pile up Hey well you're in there
deleting power-hungry apps check which
ones in your vast collection you don't
use that much sure it seems so tempting
to have tons of them at your fingertips
but do you really need five different
apps with daily exercises that let's be
honest you're not doing a great way to
cut down is to delete the apps that
serve the same purpose or ones you have
and open for a month or longer for your
screen is too bright the brighter your
screen is the more battery power is used
you can either choose auto mode for that
feature or change it manually to gain
more battery life besides a dimmer
screen will save your eyes from strain
and dryness 5 you drain or charge the
battery completely your phone battery
doesn't like extremes hey who does so
waiting to charge the gadget when it
turns off is a bad idea the same goes
for charging the phone all the way up to
100% it's best to keep the battery
between 40 and 80 percent
six tons of push notifications of course
alerts from some apps might be important
to you but do you really need to see
when it's time to rate the restaurant
you had dinner at recently
come on most no apps you've just
downloaded automatically think the
answer is yes so do some tweaking in the
settings and turn off any unnecessary
notifications 7 Bluetooth is always on
on most devices Bluetooth is on by
default even if you don't use it much so
if you don't just turn it off
your phone battery has to work harder if
bluetooth is on since this feature
requires power to constantly search for
other devices most phones let you
control bluetooth from the quick
settings menu 8 you use your phone
during charging any device needs a break
from work once in a while your phone
included please let it rest while it's
plugged in or at least try to keep your
phone idle most of the time while it's
getting some juice if you keep gaming or
watching videos this can disrupt the
battery charging cycle 9 a long screen
timeout without you changing it the
screen will automatically turn off
usually after one to two minutes of not
being used that's way too long for
anybody so cut down the screen time out
the shorter the better you'll notice a
difference in your battery usage
immediately 10 bad service we all know
how annoying places with spotty
receptions are but it's even worse for
your phone it works overtime constantly
sending signals and searching for a
tower when your phone fails to make a
connection it must send the signal again
with increased power as you can guess
this drains your battery fast turn on
airplane mode until the service gets
back to normal or get on some Wi-Fi if
you can 11 you use the camera too much
selfies in the elevator impromptu
attempts at filmmaking glory or
recording your sleeping cab
because it's just so precious take it
easy on the pics and the videos takes a
lot of battery power to work the cameras
focus and record the images and sounds
12 you don't use dark mode some apps let
you choose a black background instead of
the standard usually bright one making
that switch will have an impactful
battery saving effect since black pixels
use less power remember the tip with
your wallpaper some phones even have an
option of setting system-wide dark mode
13 your phone gets cold your battery
works because all sorts of chemical
reactions are happening inside it really
low temperatures slow those crucial
processes down so don't let your digital
friend get too cold 14 it's too hot for
your phone remember that thing about
phones not liking extremes I wasn't
kidding your battery doesn't like being
too hot either
it can cause a loss of the electrolyte
that helps your battery hold a charge if
you're stuck outside on a scorching
summer day at least turn your phone off
so that it won't generate its own heat
15 your apps update automatically
when your phone has this feature on it
keeps looking for updates and starts
downloading it right away when one is
available pretty clear that auto update
means a lot of activity is going on and
taking away precious battery juice turn
it off and start updating apps manually
16 you let your phone vibrate you don't
need your gadget to vibrate if it's
ringing why make it do it twice the work
you can save a bit of battery power by
turning off that little vibe your phone
gives off every time you press virtual
keys so far I'm guilty of almost all
these please let me know if you are too
down in the comments you know the drill
number 17 multiple apps track your
location there are apps like maps and
taxi services that really need to know
where you are to work properly but many
others just have this feature on by
default
check which apps have Geo locator
enabled and turn them off if it's
necessary this way
you'll help your battery work less and
solve privacy issues as well not
everyone on the Internet should know
where you are at any given moment
through your posts on social media Rai
18 you close background apps many think
this trick saves the battery but in
reality it has the opposite effect
background apps aren't active and don't
use much power they're just standing by
ready to jump a new action but if you
manually close them and after some time
open them again your phone has to spend
more energy on it 19 you use fast charge
too often yeah it does help when you're
in a hurry but using it all the time
will turn this feature into a fast drain
try to let your phone get a good long
charging sesh on a regular basis slow
and steady wins the race
twenty you skip system updates usually
operating system updates include bug
fixes and tweaks meaning they help your
phone perform better and good
performance equals more efficient use of
the battery 21 you use an unofficial
charger now official Chargers have many
safety settings like controlling the
amount of current delivered to the
battery not all off-brand chargers can
do that and too much current deliver to
a battery leads to its degradation so if
you've lost the charger that goes with
your device make sure your replacement
is approved by the phone's manufacturer
hey if you learn something new today
give me a call no wait we're trying to
save battery instead give the video a
like and share it with a friend and here
are some other cool videos I think
you'll enjoy just click to the left or
right and remember stay on the bright
side of life